feat(docs): add sequencer reward claim doc (#17980)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/versioned_docs/version-v2.0.2/the_aztec_network/operation/sequencer_management/claiming_rewards.md

- Have a running sequencer that earned rewards (see [Sequencer Setup Guide](../../setup/sequencer_management.md))
- Have Foundry installed with the `cast` command available ([installation guide](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation))
- Know your Rollup contract address (see [Useful Commands](./useful_commands.md#get-the-rollup-contract-address))
- Have your sequencer's coinbase address
- Have an Ethereum RPC endpoint for the network you're querying

## Understanding Reward Claiming

### How Rewards Accumulate

When your sequencer proposes blocks and participates in consensus, rewards accumulate in the Rollup contract under your coinbase address. These rewards come from:

- Block rewards distributed by the protocol
- Transaction fees from processed transactions

Rewards are tracked per coinbase address in the Rollup contract's storage but remain in the contract until you claim them.

### Manual vs Automatic

Rewards are not automatically sent to your coinbase address. You must explicitly claim them by calling the `claimSequencerRewards` function on the Rollup contract.

### Claim Requirements

Before claiming, verify these conditions:

> 1. **Rewards must be claimable**: The Rollup owner enables claiming via `setRewardsClaimable(true)` after a governance decision or after the earliest claimable timestamp passes.

Reviewer: There is no timestamp. Governance must enable claiming rewards before sequencers can withdraw

Reviewer: To be more accurate - there is a timestamp before which Governance cannot unlock rewards. But even after this timestamp, the governance vote is necessary to unlock rewards.

```bash
cast call $ROLLUP_ADDRESS "isRewardsClaimable()" --rpc-url $RPC_URL
```

**Expected output:**
- `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001` - Rewards are claimable (true)
- `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000` - Rewards are not yet claimable (false)

If rewards are not claimable, check when they will become claimable:

```bash
cast call $ROLLUP_ADDRESS "getEarliestRewardsClaimableTimestamp()" --rpc-url $RPC_URL
```

This returns a Unix timestamp indicating the earliest time when the owner can enable reward claiming.

### Query Your Pending Rewards

Check accumulated rewards:

```bash
cast call $ROLLUP_ADDRESS "getSequencerRewards(address)" [COINBASE_ADDRESS] --rpc-url $RPC_URL
```

Replace `[COINBASE_ADDRESS]` with your sequencer's coinbase address.

**Example:**
```bash
cast call $ROLLUP_ADDRESS "getSequencerRewards(address)" 0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb --rpc-url $RPC_URL
# Output: 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016345785d8a0000

# Convert to decimal tokens (assuming 18 decimals)
cast --from-wei $(cast --to-dec 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016345785d8a0000)

> # Output: 0.1

Reviewer: just pipe them together

```
cast call $ROLLUP_ADDRESS "getSequencerRewards(address)" 0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb --rpc-url $RPC_URL | cast from-wei
```

```

## Claiming Your Rewards

> The `claimSequencerRewards` function is permissionless - anyone can call it for any address. Rewards are always sent to the specified recipient, regardless of who submits the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `claimSequencerRewards` function is permissionless - anyone can call it for any address. Rewards are always sent to the `coinbase` address, regardless of who submits the transaction.
```

### Basic Claim Command

Use `cast send` to claim rewards:

```bash
cast send $ROLLUP_ADDRESS \
  "claimSequencerRewards(address)" \
  [RECIPIENT_ADDRESS] \
  --rpc-url $RPC_URL \
  --private-key [YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY]
```

Replace:

> - `[RECIPIENT_ADDRESS]` - The address that will receive the rewards

Reviewer: This is the coinbase address. It's confusing when you call it recipient address

```bash
cast send $ROLLUP_ADDRESS \
  "claimSequencerRewards(address)" \
  0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb \
  --rpc-url $RPC_URL \
  --private-key 0xac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80
```

### Using a Keystore File

For better security, use a keystore file instead of exposing your private key:

```bash
cast send $ROLLUP_ADDRESS \
  "claimSequencerRewards(address)" \
  [RECIPIENT_ADDRESS] \
  --rpc-url $RPC_URL \
  --keystore [PATH_TO_KEYSTORE] \
  --password [KEYSTORE_PASSWORD]
```

### Using a Hardware Wallet

If you're using a Ledger wallet:

```bash
cast send $ROLLUP_ADDRESS \
  "claimSequencerRewards(address)" \
  [RECIPIENT_ADDRESS] \
  --rpc-url $RPC_URL \
  --ledger
```

This will prompt you to confirm the transaction on your Ledger device.

## Verifying Your Claim

Check that the transaction succeeded and your pending rewards were reset to zero:

```bash
# Check transaction succeeded (look for status: 1)
cast receipt [TRANSACTION_HASH] --rpc-url $RPC_URL

# Verify pending rewards are now zero
cast call $ROLLUP_ADDRESS "getSequencerRewards(address)" [RECIPIENT_ADDRESS] --rpc-url $RPC_URL
```

## Delegated Stake Considerations

> If you're operating with delegated stake, your coinbase is configured as a [Split contract](https://docs.splits.org/core/split) that distributes rewards between you and your delegators.

Reviewer: Again this is not necessarily true unless the provider did this

Author: Removed this section, they should know that the coinbase is the split address, mechanically it doesn't change

Claim to the Split contract address:

```bash
cast send $ROLLUP_ADDRESS \
  "claimSequencerRewards(address)" \
  [SPLIT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS] \
  --rpc-url $RPC_URL \
  --private-key [YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY]
```

After claiming, trigger distribution from the Split contract according to the configured shares. See the [0xSplits documentation](https://docs.splits.org/core/split) for distribution commands and [Running Delegated Stake](./running_delegated_stake.md) for setup details.

## Troubleshooting

### "Rewards not claimable" Error

**Symptom**: Transaction reverts with "Rewards not claimable" error.

**Solution**:
1. Check if rewards are claimable using `isRewardsClaimable()`

> 2. If `false`, wait until the Rollup owner enables claiming via `setRewardsClaimable(true)`

Reviewer: I would replace Rollup owner with Governance

3. Check the earliest claimable timestamp using `getEarliestRewardsClaimableTimestamp()`

> 4. Contact the network operators or check governance proposals for information about when claiming will be enabled

Reviewer: why this line?

Author: Removed

### No Pending Rewards

**Symptom**: `getSequencerRewards()` returns zero.

**Possible causes**:
1. Your sequencer has not proposed any blocks yet
2. You already claimed all available rewards
3. Your coinbase address is configured incorrectly

**Solutions**:
1. Verify your sequencer is active and proposing blocks (check [monitoring](../monitoring.md))
2. Check your sequencer logs for block proposals
3. Verify the coinbase address in your sequencer configuration matches the address you're querying
4. Check if blocks you proposed have been proven (rewards are distributed after proof submission)

### Transaction Fails with "Out of Gas"

**Symptom**: Transaction reverts due to insufficient gas.

**Solution**:
1. Increase the gas limit when sending the transaction using `--gas-limit`:
   ```bash
   cast send $ROLLUP_ADDRESS \
     "claimSequencerRewards(address)" \

>      [RECIPIENT_ADDRESS] \

Reviewer: change recipient to coinbae

     --rpc-url $RPC_URL \
     --private-key [YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY] \
     --gas-limit 200000
   ```
2. Ensure your account has sufficient ETH to cover gas costs

### Insufficient Funds for Gas

**Symptom**: Transaction fails because the sending account has insufficient ETH.

**Solution**:
1. Check your account balance:
   ```bash
   cast balance [YOUR_ADDRESS] --rpc-url $RPC_URL
   ```

> 2. Send ETH to your account to cover gas costs (recommended: at least 0.01 ETH)

Reviewer: where did you get the 0.01 ETH from, seems high

Author: It's a estimation pulled out of thin air, I changed it to 0.005
